⚠️  go/v4-alpha: change the layout to follow Golang Standards (#2985)
kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder: docs/book/src/migration/manually_migration_guide_gov3_to_gov4.md

```

> #### Changes the layout

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
#### Changes to the layout
```

> ##### Now, let's perform the layout changes to comply within:

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
##### New layout:
```

- The directory `apis` was renamed to `api` to follow the standard
- The `controller(s)` directory has been moved under a new directory called `internal` and renamed to singular as well `controller`
- The `main.go` previously scaffolded in the root directory has been moved under a new directory  called `cmd`

Therefore, you can check the changes in the layout results into:

```sh
...
├── cmd
│ └── main.go
├── internal
│ └── controller
└── api
```

> ##### In this way, you will need to:

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
##### Migrating to the new layout:
```

- Create a new directory `cmd` and move the `main.go` under it.
- If your project support multi-group the APIs are scaffold under a directory called `apis`. Rename this directory to `api`
- Move the `controllers` directory under the `internal` and rename it for `controller` 
- Now ensure that the imports will be updated accordingly by:
  - Update the `main.go` imports to look for the new path of your controllers under the `pkg` directory

>   - Update all controllers imports to look for the new path of your apis under the `pkg` directory

Reviewer: I think this line here is outdated since the `api` directory will no longer be placed under the `pkg` directory.
```suggestion

```

```

With:

```
RUN CGO_ENABLED=0 GOOS=${TARGETOS:-linux} GOARCH=${TARGETARCH} go build -a -o manager cmd/main.go
```

- Update the Makefile targets to build and run the manager by replacing:

```
.PHONY: build
build: manifests generate fmt vet ## Build manager binary.
	go build -o bin/manager main.go

.PHONY: run
run: manifests generate fmt vet ## Run a controller from your host.
	go run ./main.go
```

With:

```
.PHONY: build
build: manifests generate fmt vet ## Build manager binary.
	go build -o bin/manager cmd/main.go

.PHONY: run
run: manifests generate fmt vet ## Run a controller from your host.
	go run ./cmd/main.go
```

- Update the `internal/controller/suite_test.go` to set the path for the `CRDDirectoryPaths`:

Replace:

```
CRDDirectoryPaths:     []string{filepath.Join("..", "config", "crd", "bases")},
```

With:

```
CRDDirectoryPaths:     []string{filepath.Join("..", "..", "config", "crd", "bases")},
```

Note that if your project has multiple groups (`multigroup:true`) then the above update should result into `"..", "..", "..",` instead of `"..",".."`

#### Now, let's update the PATHs in the PROJECT file accordingly

> The PROJECT tracks the paths of all APIs used in your project. Ensure that they now point to `pkg/api/...` as the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PROJECT tracks the paths of all APIs used in your project. Ensure that they now point to `api/...` as the following example:
```

Before update:
  group: crew
  kind: Captain

>   path: sigs.k8s.io/kubebuilder/testdata/project-v4/api/crew/v1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  path: sigs.k8s.io/kubebuilder/testdata/project-v4/apis/crew/v1
```

```

After Update:

```
  group: crew
  kind: Captain

>   path: sigs.k8s.io/kubebuilder/testdata/project-v4/apis/crew/v1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  path: sigs.k8s.io/kubebuilder/testdata/project-v4/api/crew/v1
```

```

#### Changes the layout

##### Now, let's perform the layout changes to comply within:

- The directory `api` was renamed to `apis` to follow the standard applied within controllers
- The `api(s)` directory has been moved under a new directory called `pkg`
- The `controller(s)` directory has been moved under a new directory called `internal`
- The `main.go` previously scaffolded in the root directory has been moved under a new directory  called `cmd`

Therefore, you can check the changes in the layout results into:

```sh
...
├── cmd
│ └── main.go
├── internal
│ └── controllers
└── pkg
    └── apis
```

##### In this way, you will need to:

- Create a new directory `cmd` and move the `main.go` under it.

> - If your project does not support multi-group the APIs are scaffold under a directory called `api`. Rename this diretory to `apis`

Reviewer 2: nit: ```suggestion
- If your project does not support multi-group the APIs are scaffolded under a directory called `api`. Rename this diretory to `apis`
```

> - Move the `apis` directory under the `pkg`
> - Move the `controllers` directory under the `internal` 

Reviewer 2: Nit: 
```suggestion
- Move the `apis` directory under `pkg/`
- Move the `controllers` directory under `internal/` 
```

> - Now ensure that the imports will be updated accordingly by:

Reviewer 2: Nit: ```suggestion
- Now ensure that the imports will need to be updated accordingly by:
```

>   - Update the `main.go` imports to look for the new path of your controllers under the `pkg` directory

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Updating the `main.go` imports to look for the new path of your controllers under the `pkg` directory
```

>   - Update all controllers imports to look for the new path of your apis under the `pkg` directory

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Updating all imports in controllers/ to look for the new path of your apis under the `pkg` directory
```

```

- Update the Makefile targets to build and run the manager by replacing:

```
.PHONY: build
build: manifests generate fmt vet ## Build manager binary.
	go build -o bin/manager main.go

.PHONY: run
run: manifests generate fmt vet ## Run a controller from your host.
	go run ./main.go
```

With:

```
.PHONY: build
build: manifests generate fmt vet ## Build manager binary.
	go build -o bin/manager cmd/main.go

.PHONY: run
run: manifests generate fmt vet ## Run a controller from your host.
	go run ./cmd/main.go
```

- Update the `internal/controllers/suite_test.go` to set the path for the `CRDDirectoryPaths`:

Replace:

```
CRDDirectoryPaths:     []string{filepath.Join("..", "config", "crd", "bases")},
```

With:

```
CRDDirectoryPaths:     []string{filepath.Join("..", "..", "config", "crd", "bases")},
```

Note that if your project has multiple groups (`multigroup:true`) then the above update should result into `"..", "..", "..",` instead of `"..",".."`

#### Now, let's update the PATHs in the PROJECT file accordingly

The PROJECT tracks the paths of all APIs used in your project. Ensure that they now point to `pkg/api/...` as the following example:

Before update:

> ```

Author: ```suggestion

```
```

  kind: Captain
  path: sigs.k8s.io/kubebuilder/testdata/project-v4/api/crew/v1
```

After Update:

```
  group: crew
  kind: Captain
  path: sigs.k8s.io/kubebuilder/testdata/project-v4/apis/crew/v1
```

### Update kustomize manifests with the changes made so far

> - Update the manifest under `config/` directory with all changes performed in the default scaffold done with `go/v4-alpha` plugin. (see for example `testdata/project-v4/config/`) to get all changes in the
>   default scaffolds to be applied on your project

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Update the manifest under `config/` directory with all changes performed in the default scaffold done with `go/v4-alpha` plugin (see the example `testdata/project-v4/config/`) to get all changes in the
  default scaffolds to be applied on your project
```

> - Create `config/samples/kustomization.yaml` with all Custom Resources samples specified into `config/samples`. _(see for example `testdata/project-v4/config/samples/kustomization.yaml`)_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Create `config/samples/kustomization.yaml` with all Custom Resources samples specified into `config/samples`. _(see the example `testdata/project-v4/config/samples/kustomization.yaml`)_
```

<aside class="warning">
<h1>`config/` directory with changes into the scaffold files</h1>

Note that under the `config/` directory you will find scaffolding changes since using
`go/v4-alpha` you will ensure that you are no longer using Kustomize v3x.

> You can mainly compare the `config/` directory from the samples scaffolded under the `testdata`directory by

Reviewer 2: Nit:
```suggestion
You can mainly compare the `config/` directory from the samples scaffoldeded under the `testdata`directory by
```

You can mainly compare the `config/` directory from the samples scaffolded under the `testdata`directory by
checking the differences between the `testdata/project-v3/config/` with `testdata/project-v4/config/` which
are samples created with the same commands with the only difference being versions.

However, note that if you create your project with Kubebuilder CLI 3.0.0, its scaffolds
might change to accommodate changes up to the latest releases using `go/v3` which are not considered
breaking for users and/or are forced by the changes introduced in the dependencies
used by the project such as [controller-runtime][controller-runtime] and [controller-tools][controller-tools].

</aside>

### If you have webhooks:

Replace the import `admissionv1beta1 "k8s.io/api/admission/v1beta1"` with `admissionv1 "k8s.io/api/admission/v1"` in the webhook test files

### Makefile updates

> Update the Makefile with the changes which can be found in the samples under testdata for the release tag used. (see for example `testdata/project-v4/Makefile`)

Author: ```suggestion

Update the Makefile with the changes which can be found in the samples under testdata for the release tag used. (see for example `testdata/project-v4/Makefile`)
```

```

With: 

```
COPY cmd/main.go cmd/main.go
COPY pkg/apis/ pkg/apis/
COPY internal/controllers/ internal/controllers/
```

Then, replace:

```
RUN CGO_ENABLED=0 GOOS=${TARGETOS:-linux} GOARCH=${TARGETARCH} go build -a -o manager main.go

```

With:

```
RUN CGO_ENABLED=0 GOOS=${TARGETOS:-linux} GOARCH=${TARGETARCH} go build -a -o manager cmd/main.go
```

- Update the Makefile targets to build and run the manager by replacing:

```
.PHONY: build
build: manifests generate fmt vet ## Build manager binary.
	go build -o bin/manager main.go

.PHONY: run
run: manifests generate fmt vet ## Run a controller from your host.
	go run ./main.go
```

With:

```
.PHONY: build
build: manifests generate fmt vet ## Build manager binary.
	go build -o bin/manager cmd/main.go

.PHONY: run
run: manifests generate fmt vet ## Run a controller from your host.
	go run ./cmd/main.go
```

- Update the `internal/controllers/suite_test.go` to set the path for the `CRDDirectoryPaths`:

Replace:

```
CRDDirectoryPaths:     []string{filepath.Join("..", "config", "crd", "bases")},
```

With:

```
CRDDirectoryPaths:     []string{filepath.Join("..", "..", "config", "crd", "bases")},
```

> Note that if your project has multiple groups (`multigroup:true`) then the above updated should result into `"..", "..", "..",` instead of `"..",".."`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that if your project has multiple groups (`multigroup:true`) then the above update should result into `"..", "..", "..",` instead of `"..",".."`
```

#### Now, let's update the PATHs in the PROJECT file accordingly

> The PROJECT tracks the paths of all APIs used into your project ensure that they will
> now be pointing out for `pkg/api/...` as the following example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The PROJECT tracks the paths of all APIs used in your project. Ensure that they now point to `pkg/api/...` as the following example:
```

Before update:

> ```

Reviewer 3: Need a new line before code block for consistency?

`go mod tidy` to ensure that you get the latest dependencies and your Golang code has no breaking changes.
- Update the manifest under `config/` directory with all changes performed in the default scaffold done with `go/v4-alpha` plugin. (see for example `testdata/project-v4/config/`) to get all changes in the 
default scaffolds to be applied on your project
- Create `config/samples/kustomization.yaml` with all Custom Resources samples specified into `config/samples`. _(see for example `testdata/project-v4/config/samples/kustomization.yaml`)_
- :warning: Replace the import `admissionv1beta1 "k8s.io/api/admission/v1beta1"` with `admissionv1 "k8s.io/api/admission/v1"` in the webhook test files
- Now, let's perform the layout changes. The `api(s)` and `controller(s)` directories have been moved under a new directory called `pkg`. Therefore, you will need to:
  - Create a directory called `pkg`
  - Move the `api` or `apis` (if you are using [multi-group][multi-group] layout) under the `pkg`
  - Move the `controller` or `controllers` (if you are using [multi-group][multi-group] layout) under the `pkg`

>   - Update the `main.go` imports to look for the new path of your controllers under the `pkg` directory

Author: Good point I need to re-organize this one.

>   - Update the `main.go` imports to look for the new path of your controllers under the `pkg` directory

Author: Sort it out. Thx
